docs/en/developer-guide/java-format-code.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "Java Format Code",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Java Format Code

The formatting of the Java part of the code in Doris is usually done automatically by the IDE. Only the general format rules are listed here. For developer, you need to set the corresponding code styles in different IDEs according to the format rules.

## Import Order

```
org.apache.doris
<blank line>
com
<blank line>
org
<blank line>
java
<blank line>
javax
<blank line>
```

* Do not use `import *`
* Do not use `import static`

## Checkstyle

Now we have `formatter-check` in `CI` to check the code format.

If you use `IDEA` to develop Java code, please install `Checkstyle-IDEA` plugin.

Setting the `checkstyle.xml` file in `Tools->Checkstyle`.

Click the plus sign under Configuration File, Select `Use a local Checkstyle file`, and select the `fe/checkstyle.xml` file.

If you use VS Code to develop Java code, please install `Checkstyle for Java` plugin, and config according to the [document](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/java-linting) and the picture.

Commit message:

MOD: Implement java-format-code.md for IDEA

docs/en/developer-guide/java-format-code.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "Java Format Code",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Java Format Code

The formatting of the Java part of the code in Doris is usually done automatically by the IDE. Only the general format rules are listed here. For developer, you need to set the corresponding code styles in different IDEs according to the format rules.

## Import Order

```
org.apache.doris
<blank line>
com
<blank line>
org
<blank line>
java
<blank line>
javax
<blank line>
```

* Do not use `import *`
* Do not use `import static`

## Checkstyle

Now we have `formatter-check` in `CI` to check the code format.

If you use `IDEA` to develop Java code, please install `Checkstyle-IDEA` plugin.

Setting the `checkstyle.xml` file in `Tools->Checkstyle`.

Click the plus sign under Configuration File, select `Use a local Checkstyle file`, and select the `fe/check/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml` file.

The automatic formatting function of `IDEA` is also recommended.

Go to `Preferences->Editor->Code Style->Java` click the config sign and select `Import Scheme`，select `CheckStyle Configuration`，and select the `fe/check/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml` file.

If you use VS Code to develop Java code, please install `Checkstyle for Java` plugin, and config according to the [document](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/java-linting) and the picture.
