docs/en/installing/compilation-with-ldb-toolchain.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "Compiling with LDB toolchain",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Compiling with LDB toolchain

This document describes how to compile Doris using the LDB toolchain. This method is currently used as a supplement to the Docker compilation method to facilitate developers and users without a Docker environment to compile Doris source code.

> You can still compile the latest code using the Docker development image: `apache/incubator-doris:build-env-ldb-toolchain-latest`

> Thanks to [Amos Bird](https://github.com/amosbird) for this contribution.

## Prepare the environment

This works for most Linux distributions (CentOS, Ubuntu, etc.).

1. Download `ldb_toolchain_gen.sh`

    The latest `ldb_toolchain_gen.sh` can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen/releases). This script is used to generate the ldb toolchain.
    
    > For more information, you can visit [https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen](https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen)

2. Execute the following command to generate the ldb toolchain

    ```
    sh ldb_toolchain_gen.sh /path/to/ldb_toolchain/
    ```
    
    where `/path/to/ldb_toolchain/` is the directory where the toolchain is installed.
    
    After successful execution, the following directory structure will be created under `/path/to/ldb_toolchain/`.
    
    ```
    ├── bin
    ├── include
    ├── lib
    ├── share
    ├── test
    └── usr
    ```
    
3. Download and install other compiled components

    1. [Java8](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/jdk-8u131-linux-x64.tar.gz)
    2. [Apache Maven 3.6.3](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/apache-maven-3.6.3-bin.tar.gz)
    3. [Node v12.13.0](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/node-v12.13.0-linux-x64.tar.gz)

    If your environment is somehow minimal, additional packages should be installed before compiling Doris. The following instructions describe how to setup a minimal CentOS 6 box to compile Doris. Other linux distros should be similar.

    ```
    # install required system packages
    sudo yum install -y byacc patch automake libtool make which file ncurses-devel gettext-devel unzip bzip2 zip util-linux wget git python2
    
    # install autoconf-2.69
    wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/autoconf/autoconf-2.69.tar.gz && \
        tar zxf autoconf-2.69.tar.gz && \
        cd autoconf-2.69 && \
        ./configure && \
        make && \
        make install
    
    # install bison-3.0.4
    wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/bison/bison-3.0.4.tar.gz && \
        tar xzf bison-3.0.4.tar.gz && \
        cd bison-3.0.4 && \
        ./configure && \
        make && \
        make install
    ```

4. Download Doris source code

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/apache/incubator-doris.git
    ```
    
    After downloading, go to the Doris source directory, create the `custom_env.sh`, file, and set the PATH environment variable, e.g.
    
    ```
    export JAVA_HOME=/path/to/java/
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/maven/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/node/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/ldb_toolchain/bin:$PATH
    ```

## Compiling Doris

Go to the Doris source code directory and execute.

```
sh build.sh
```

This script will compile the third-party libraries first and then the Doris components (FE, BE) later. The compiled output is in the `output/` directory.

Commit message:

Modify the compilation docs whether it supports avx2.

docs/en/installing/compilation-with-ldb-toolchain.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "Compiling with LDB toolchain",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Compiling with LDB toolchain

This document describes how to compile Doris using the LDB toolchain. This method is currently used as a supplement to the Docker compilation method to facilitate developers and users without a Docker environment to compile Doris source code.

> You can still compile the latest code using the Docker development image: `apache/incubator-doris:build-env-ldb-toolchain-latest`

> Thanks to [Amos Bird](https://github.com/amosbird) for this contribution.

## Prepare the environment

This works for most Linux distributions (CentOS, Ubuntu, etc.).

1. Download `ldb_toolchain_gen.sh`

    The latest `ldb_toolchain_gen.sh` can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen/releases). This script is used to generate the ldb toolchain.
    
    > For more information, you can visit [https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen](https://github.com/amosbird/ldb_toolchain_gen)

2. Execute the following command to generate the ldb toolchain

    ```
    sh ldb_toolchain_gen.sh /path/to/ldb_toolchain/
    ```
    
    where `/path/to/ldb_toolchain/` is the directory where the toolchain is installed.
    
    After successful execution, the following directory structure will be created under `/path/to/ldb_toolchain/`.
    
    ```
    ├── bin
    ├── include
    ├── lib
    ├── share
    ├── test
    └── usr
    ```
    
3. Download and install other compiled components

    1. [Java8](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/jdk-8u131-linux-x64.tar.gz)
    2. [Apache Maven 3.6.3](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/apache-maven-3.6.3-bin.tar.gz)
    3. [Node v12.13.0](https://doris-thirdparty-repo.bj.bcebos.com/thirdparty/node-v12.13.0-linux-x64.tar.gz)

    If your environment is somehow minimal, additional packages should be installed before compiling Doris. The following instructions describe how to setup a minimal CentOS 6 box to compile Doris. Other linux distros should be similar.

    ```
    # install required system packages
    sudo yum install -y byacc patch automake libtool make which file ncurses-devel gettext-devel unzip bzip2 zip util-linux wget git python2
    
    # install autoconf-2.69
    wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/autoconf/autoconf-2.69.tar.gz && \
        tar zxf autoconf-2.69.tar.gz && \
        cd autoconf-2.69 && \
        ./configure && \
        make && \
        make install
    
    # install bison-3.0.4
    wget http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/bison/bison-3.0.4.tar.gz && \
        tar xzf bison-3.0.4.tar.gz && \
        cd bison-3.0.4 && \
        ./configure && \
        make && \
        make install
    ```

4. Download Doris source code

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/apache/incubator-doris.git
    ```
    
    After downloading, go to the Doris source directory, create the `custom_env.sh`, file, and set the PATH environment variable, e.g.
    
    ```
    export JAVA_HOME=/path/to/java/
    export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/maven/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/node/bin:$PATH
    export PATH=/path/to/ldb_toolchain/bin:$PATH
    ```

## Compiling Doris

Enter the Doris source code directory and execute:

```
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep avx2
```

Check whether the compilation machine supports the avx2 instruction set

If it is not supported, use the following command to compile

```
$ USE_AVX2=0 sh build.sh
```

If supported, execute `sh build.sh` directly

This script will compile the third-party libraries first and then the Doris components (FE, BE) later. The compiled output is in the `output/` directory.
