docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/Data Types/STRING.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "STRING",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# STRING
## Description
STRING (M)
A variable length string, max legnth is 2147483643(2GB - 4).

Note: Variable length strings are stored in UTF-8 encoding, so usually English characters occupies 1 byte, and Chinese characters occupies 3 bytes.

## keyword
STRING

Commit message:

[api-change] add soft limit of String type length 1. add a config string_type_soft_limit to soft limit max length of string type 2. disable using String type in Key column, partition column and    distribution column 3. remove String type alias BLOB for futrue use

docs/en/sql-reference/sql-statements/Data Types/STRING.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "STRING",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# STRING
## Description
STRING (M)
A variable length string, max legnth is 2147483643(2GB - 4). The length of the String type is also limited by the configuration `string_type_length_soft_limit_bytes` of be, the actual maximum length that can be stored take the minimum value of both, the String type can only be used in the value column, not in the key column and the partition and bucket columns

Note: Variable length strings are stored in UTF-8 encoding, so usually English characters occupies 1 byte, and Chinese characters occupies 3 bytes.

## keyword
STRING
