docs/en/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/to_bitmap.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "to_bitmap",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# to_bitmap
## description
### Syntax

`BITMAP TO_BITMAP(expr)`

Convert an unsigned bigint (ranging from 0 to 18446744073709551615) to a bitmap containing that value. Mainly be used to load integer value into bitmap column, e.g.,

```
cat data | curl --location-trusted -u user:passwd -T - -H "columns: dt,page,user_id, user_id=to_bitmap(user_id)"   http://host:8410/api/test/testDb/_stream_load
```

## example

```
mysql> select bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10));
+-----------------------------+
| bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10)) |
+-----------------------------+
|                           1 |
+-----------------------------+
```

## keyword

    TO_BITMAP,BITMAP

Commit message:

[Vectorized] change bitmap_count return 0 instead of NULL && add bit_length

docs/en/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/to_bitmap.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "to_bitmap",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# to_bitmap
## description
### Syntax

`BITMAP TO_BITMAP(expr)`

Convert an unsigned bigint (ranging from 0 to 18446744073709551615) to a bitmap containing that value. 
Null will be return when the input value is not in this range.
Mainly be used to load integer value into bitmap column, e.g.,

```
cat data | curl --location-trusted -u user:passwd -T - -H "columns: dt,page,user_id, user_id=to_bitmap(user_id)"   http://host:8410/api/test/testDb/_stream_load
```

## example

```
mysql> select bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10));
+-----------------------------+
| bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10)) |
+-----------------------------+
|                           1 |
+-----------------------------+

MySQL> select bitmap_to_string(to_bitmap(-1));
+---------------------------------+
| bitmap_to_string(to_bitmap(-1)) |
+---------------------------------+
| NULL                            |
+---------------------------------+
```

## keyword

    TO_BITMAP,BITMAP
