docs/en/docs/sql-manual/sql-reference/Data-Definition-Statements/Alter/ALTER-CATALOG.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "ALTER-CATALOG",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

## ALTER-CATALOG

### Name

<version since="1.2">

ALTER CATALOG

</version>

### Description

This statement is used to set properties of the specified catalog. (administrator only)

1) Rename the catalog

```sql
ALTER CATALOG catalog_name RENAME new_catalog_name;
```

illustrate:
- The builtin catalog `internal` cannot be renamed
- Only the one who has at least Alter privilege can rename a catalog
- After renaming the catalog, use the REVOKE and GRANT commands to modify the appropriate user permissions

2) Modify / add properties for the catalog

```sql
ALTER CATALOG catalog_name SET PROPERTIES ('key1' = 'value1' [, 'key' = 'value2']); 
```

Update values of specified keys. If a key does not exist in the catalog properties, it will be added. 

illustrate:
- property `type` cannot be modified.
- properties of builtin catalog `internal` cannot be modified.

### Example

1. rename catalog ctlg_hive to hive

```sql
ALTER CATALOG ctlg_hive RENAME hive;
```

3. modify property `hive.metastore.uris` of catalog hive

```sql
ALTER CATALOG hive SET PROPERTIES ('hive.metastore.uris'='thrift://172.21.0.1:9083');
```

### Keywords

ALTER,CATALOG,RENAME,PROPERTY

### Best Practice

Commit message:

[fix](catalog)fix when modifying comments in property, it will modify the comments in the catalog (#24857)
- fix when modifying comments in property, it will modify the comments in the catalog
- add `alter catalog modify comment` to modify comment for catalog
- abstract some logic of `alter catalog` to parent class

docs/en/docs/sql-manual/sql-reference/Data-Definition-Statements/Alter/ALTER-CATALOG.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "ALTER-CATALOG",
    "language": "en"
}
---

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

## ALTER-CATALOG

### Name

<version since="1.2">

ALTER CATALOG

</version>

### Description

This statement is used to set properties of the specified catalog. (administrator only)

1) Rename the catalog

```sql
ALTER CATALOG catalog_name RENAME new_catalog_name;
```

illustrate:
- The builtin catalog `internal` cannot be renamed
- Only the one who has at least Alter privilege can rename a catalog
- After renaming the catalog, use the REVOKE and GRANT commands to modify the appropriate user permissions

2) Modify / add properties for the catalog

```sql
ALTER CATALOG catalog_name SET PROPERTIES ('key1' = 'value1' [, 'key' = 'value2']); 
```

Update values of specified keys. If a key does not exist in the catalog properties, it will be added. 

illustrate:
- property `type` cannot be modified.
- properties of builtin catalog `internal` cannot be modified.

3) Modify comment for the catalog

```sql
ALTER CATALOG catalog_name MODIFY COMMENT "new catalog comment";
```

illustrate：
- The builtin catalog `internal` cannot be modified

### Example

1. rename catalog ctlg_hive to hive

```sql
ALTER CATALOG ctlg_hive RENAME hive;
```

3. modify property `hive.metastore.uris` of catalog hive

```sql
ALTER CATALOG hive SET PROPERTIES ('hive.metastore.uris'='thrift://172.21.0.1:9083');
```

4. modify comment of catalog hive

```sql
ALTER CATALOG hive MODIFY COMMENT "new catalog comment";
```

### Keywords

ALTER,CATALOG,RENAME,PROPERTY

### Best Practice
