samples/doris-demo/README.md, before:

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

In order to help developers quickly use and master Doris, this project provides a large number of code examples of Doris related scenarios.

# flink-demo

Mainly to provide sample codes for the integration of doris and flink, and examples of the use of Flink-doris-connector

# spark-demo

Mainly to provide sample codes for the integration of doris and spark, and examples of the use of Spark-doris-connector

# stream-load-demo

Provide usage examples of Doris stream load, including file and memory data import, using Java Http client method

# spring-jdbc-demo

Provides the use of Spring to integrate Doris, and provides external data access interfaces

# docs

Instructions for each example

Commit message:

[fix] (rpc-udf) Fixed the problem that the query could not be interrupted if an error occurred in the rpc server during the execution of rpc-udf. Add java,cpp,python demo of rpc-udf server

samples/doris-demo/README.md, after:

<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

In order to help developers quickly use and master Doris, this project provides a large number of code examples of Doris related scenarios.

# flink-demo

Mainly to provide sample codes for the integration of doris and flink, and examples of the use of Flink-doris-connector

# spark-demo

Mainly to provide sample codes for the integration of doris and spark, and examples of the use of Spark-doris-connector

# stream-load-demo

Provide usage examples of Doris stream load, including file and memory data import, using Java Http client method

# spring-jdbc-demo

Provides the use of Spring to integrate Doris, and provides external data access interfaces

# rpc-udf-java-demo

Provides an example of how to implements an Doris udf function service in java 

# rpc-udf-cpp-demo

Provides an example of how to implements an Doris udf function service in CPP 

# rpc-udf-python-demo

Provides an example of how to implements an Doris udf function service in Python 

# docs

Instructions for each example
