docs/zh-CN/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/to_bitmap.md, before:

---
{
    "title": "to_bitmap",
    "language": "zh-CN"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# to_bitmap
## description
### Syntax

`BITMAP TO_BITMAP(expr)`

输入为取值在 0 ~ 18446744073709551615 区间的 unsigned bigint ，输出为包含该元素的bitmap。
该函数主要用于stream load任务将整型字段导入Doris表的bitmap字段。例如

```
cat data | curl --location-trusted -u user:passwd -T - -H "columns: dt,page,user_id, user_id=to_bitmap(user_id)"   http://host:8410/api/test/testDb/_stream_load
```

## example

```
mysql> select bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10));
+-----------------------------+
| bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10)) |
+-----------------------------+
|                           1 |
+-----------------------------+
```

## keyword

    TO_BITMAP,BITMAP

Commit message:

[Vectorized] change bitmap_count return 0 instead of NULL && add bit_length

docs/zh-CN/sql-reference/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/to_bitmap.md, after:

---
{
    "title": "to_bitmap",
    "language": "zh-CN"
}
---

<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# to_bitmap
## description
### Syntax

`BITMAP TO_BITMAP(expr)`

输入为取值在 0 ~ 18446744073709551615 区间的 unsigned bigint ，输出为包含该元素的bitmap。
当输入值不在此范围时， 会返回NULL。
该函数主要用于stream load任务将整型字段导入Doris表的bitmap字段。例如

```
cat data | curl --location-trusted -u user:passwd -T - -H "columns: dt,page,user_id, user_id=to_bitmap(user_id)"   http://host:8410/api/test/testDb/_stream_load
```

## example

```
mysql> select bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10));
+-----------------------------+
| bitmap_count(to_bitmap(10)) |
+-----------------------------+
|                           1 |
+-----------------------------+

MySQL> select bitmap_to_string(to_bitmap(-1));
+---------------------------------+
| bitmap_to_string(to_bitmap(-1)) |
+---------------------------------+
| NULL                            |
+---------------------------------+
```

## keyword

    TO_BITMAP,BITMAP
